== SOURCE
https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-features/nirvana-kurt-cobain-ai-song-1146444/
== AGENT
Over The Bridge (Mental Health Charity)
== GOAL
Generate music in the style of artists who are part of the "27 Club", such as Kurt Cobain and Amy Winehouse, to raise mental health awareness. 
== DATA
For each artist, between 20 and 30 songs were analysed, where the music/instrumentation and the lyrics were analysed separately. 
The music was inputted as a MIDI files in individual sections (e.g. Riffs on guitar, Vocals, Drums, Harmonies, etc) separately. 
A similar process was carried out for the lyrics which was inputted as plain text. 
== METHODS
Google AI's Magenta was used to generate the music and lyrics, using a combination of Deep Learning and Reinforcement Learning.
After analysing the inputted music, the program generated a continuous track of music for the given type (e.g. Guitar Riffs). 
Then people would have to sift through the music to find the ~10% of usable material from each track to create a full song.
Similarly, for the lyrics, the output was read by a human in order to find lyrics that syllabically matched the rhythm and tone of the music, and combined to make a full set of lyrics
== RESULTS
With the aid of human expertise, Over The Bridge were able to generate all the components they needed to assemble a full album in the style of many dead musicians. 
Though a lot of the material that was generated from Magenta was "unlistenable", there was still enough interesting material that once found could be combined to create a full song.
Over The Bridge spent one year researching and developing the music for the album, and six months hiring artists and recording the album.
For the Nirvana example discussed in the article, "Drowned in the Sun" succeeds in conveying a Nirvana-esque sound and lyrical style as intended, though I can't help but feel that this is in part due to the vocal performance of Eric Hogan, a professional Kurt Cobaine tribute singer.
== ISSUES
The article doesn't contain any technical information about ML techniques used, which is to be expected from a website like Rolling Stone, but does give a good layman’s explanation of the data used and the methodologies.
To my surprise the article does a good job of representing the process and doesn't over sensationalise the situation by trying to claim that "music is dead!" or that "the computers are taking over the music industry!".
== SCORE
7
== COMMENTS
This article is interesting to me because it is such a unique idea to raise awareness of mental health issues that are so often romanticised and normalised in popular music.
There are some ethical questions and concerns raised, such as that Over The Bridge had to be very careful they didn't accidentally generate lyrics or music identical to some of the featured artists existing works and inadvertently plagiarise them.
Another interesting question related to this article but not explicitly brought up by the article is whether computer generated "art" can be considered art? 
An issue with this project that complicates this question is that even though all elements of the song, bar the vocal performance and some instrumentals (though the vast majority were done via MIDI), were generated by Magenta, actual people familiar with music technology had to manually go through the generated media and piece together the songs.
So this album can be viewed more as a Human-AI collaborative piece of art. 
One thing is certain though, as each song required a considerable amount of human input, we are still a long way from replacing musicians with computers.




