== SOURCE

https://deepmind.com/research/case-studies/alphago-the-story-so-far

== AGENT

DeepMind

== GOAL

Go is known as the most challenging classical game for artificial intelligence because of its complexity. 
Despite decades of work, the strongest Go computer programs could only play at the level of human amateurs. 
Standard AI methods, which test all possible moves and positions using a search tree, 
can’t handle the sheer number of possible Go moves or evaluate the strength of each possible board position.

== DATA

They created AlphaGo, a computer program that combines advanced search tree with deep neural networks. 
These neural networks take a description of the Go board as an input and 
process it through a number of different network layers containing millions of neuron-like connections. 
One neural network, the “policy network”, selects the next move to play. 
The other neural network, the “value network”, predicts the winner of the game. 
They introduced AlphaGo to numerous amateur games to help it develop an understanding of reasonable human play. 
Then they had it play against different versions of itself thousands of times, each time learning from its mistakes.

== METHODS

Monte Carlo tree search algorithm

In computer science, Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS) is a heuristic search algorithm for some kinds of decision processes,
most notably those employed in software that plays board games. 
In that context MCTS is used to solve the game tree. 
MCTS was combined with neural networks in 2016 for computer Go. 
It has been used in other board games like chess and shogi, games with incomplete information such as bridge
 and poker, as well as in turn-based-strategy video games. 
MCTS has also been used in self-driving cars, for example in Tesla's Autopilot software.

== RESULTS

AlphaGo took on and defeated one of the world’s top Go players, the legendary Lee Sedol, 
in a feat that experts agreed was a decade ahead of its time.

== ISSUES

Ethical issue of impact on human values. 
It is an examination of moral principles that would undoubtedly be shifted with 
the introduction of radically life-altering technology.
 This technology is based on informatics which has implications for various decision-making processes, 
which are independent of human input; therefore, devaluing human responsibility (Palm & Hansson, 2005).

== SCORE

8

== COMMENTS

AlphaGo showed the definition of ‘mind-blowing’ play today. When human artists start drawing landscapes, 
they keep drawing landscape no matter what happens during the process. 
However, AlphaGo can quickly switch from landscape to portrait. 
Similarly, human players have their own style of Go plays. However, AlphaGo has no fixed style and is so flexible.
