== SOURCE
https://cvbj.biz/mit-creates-a-robot-capable-of-finding-lost-objects-at-home-and-we-all-want-one-technology.html

== AGENT
Researchers from MIT, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

== GOAL
Researchers purpose was to develop a robotic arm that can locate the objects buried under the pile in the environment that is not 
dependent on the orientation or shape of that object. The researchers considered the use of Radio Frequency (RF) localization. The 
RF signals can traverse and locate the buried objects as well, following which it can give direction to the robot to navigate through them.

== DATA
RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) tags that are tagged on the objects. Visual data in the form of tags images and Radio Frequency measurements 
in the form of numbers so that the robot can determine the preferred location towards which it can move.
The data has been generated by researchers themselves and they tested it for different scenarios.

== METHODS
With the aim of the optimization of the robot's trajectory, reinforcement learning has been used by the researchers.
Reinforcement learning is the technique of machine learning that is based on rewarding the desired behaviours and punishing the undesired ones.
It is the method that learns from the mistakes and gets more accurate with experience. It takes actions according to the trial and run errors 
in order to make the model more accurate.
The number of moves the robot is taking to determine the object and the distance that the robot is travelling to pick the object are the areas 
that we need to minimize along with the maximization of localization accuracy.
The researchers have used reinforcement learning so that model can get more accurate with respect to these parameters.

== RESULTS
The robot is named as RFusion. RFusion can find the lost items even if they are buried under the pile. 
The results are 96% accurate and it target items with centimeter scale accuracy.

== ISSUES
The robot is taking much time to come up with the location towards which it needs to move.
It swings his arm widely around the room to take additional measurements once it has a general idea of where the item is 
thus adding the time consumed by the robot to determine the object location.

== SCORE
8

== COMMENTS
Looking at the original article from MIT researchers, it seems that the press has put up the true picture.
The idea of the researchers to develop such a robot amazed me as I could think of various uses of this robot.
For instance, it can be used in companies to increase productivity as the robot can locate the items from the 
packed containers even if the containers are not labeled.
Also, RFusion can be used in dangerous places where it is not safe for humans. 
The robot can be used to help those with disabilities or the elderly people to help improve their day-to-day life.
Further, the robot discovered is the first robot that can identify the objects buried under the pile.
This is an interesting idea as this time robots didn't use the camera to identify the objects and instead used the RFID(Radio Frequency Identification) 
tags to locate them.