SOURCE: https://gallery.azure.ai/Experiment/Binary-Classfication-Credit-risk-prediction-5

AGENT: 
		AzureML Team for Microsoft 

GOAL:
		perform cost-sensitive binary classification in Azure ML Studio to predict credit risk based on information given on a credit application.

DATA:
		German Credit Card data set from the UC Irvine repository.
		This data set contains 1000 samples with 20 features and 1 label. Each sample represents 
		a person. The 20 features include both numerical and categorical features. The last column is the 
		label, which denotes the credit risk and has only two possible values: high credit risk = 2, and low credit risk = 1

METHODS:

Two-Class Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Two-Class Boosted Decision Tree clissifiers were used to create 4 models from 2 dataset, 
They used the standard experimental workflow to create, train, and test the models.
Initialize the learning algorithms, using Two-Class Support Vector Machine and Two-Class Boosted Decision Tree 
Use Train Model to apply the algorithm to the data and create the actual model.
Use Score Model to produce scores using the test examples.

In the evaluation stage of the experiment, they computed the accuracy of each of the four models.
For this experiment, they've used Evaluate Model to compare examples that have the same misclassification cost.


RESULTS:
		They are able to predict the credit risk with certain accuracies. 
		
		The results was displayed using 3 columns table.
		The first column lists the machine learning algorithm used to generate a model.
		The second column indicates the type of the training set.
		The third column contains the cost-sensitive accuracy value.
		
		And they found that the accuracy of using Two-Class Support Vector Machine and trained on the replicated training data set is highest, 
		which is 0.7264.

COMMENTS:
		This is an impressive experiment that shows how machine learning can be used in real world and predict credit risk. 
		The only problem is that I dont understand the method was using. 
