== SOURCE

https://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/machine-learning-used-to-predict-where-new-coronaviruses-might-develop-next/5782252.html

== AGENT

The Machine learning related work work was carried out by researchers and scientists, the lead researcher of the project was Maya Wardeh who is with the Institute of Infection, Veterinary and Ecological Sciences at the University of Liverpool. Marcus Blagrove was co-leader of the research

== GOAL

The researchers were trying to monitor new coronaviruses to predict where and when they might develop next to prevent them form affecting humans. Their goal was to to identify the animals that would be most likely infected by the COVID-19 variant.

== DATA

Experts identified which animals in various countries around the world were more likely to contract coronaviruses. The data shows details about the genetic structure of coronviruses and information about other mammals which was examined by a computer alogorithm. The study identified a large number of mammals that could be carriers of the cornaviruses in the future, which could affect humans and animals

== METHODS

They used computer algorithms to examine data about the genetic structure of the variant and information about different mammals. They followed steps in order to complete the computer process which gave them the data they required.

== RESULTS

The machine learning system they had created, examined and identified 411 different COVID-19 variants and 876 possible mammal species. The results they had gathered had about 11 times more links between mammal species and coronavirus versions than had been identified in the past. The results of this predicted that at least 126 non-human species could be carriers of the covid variant.

== ISSUES

As I am unaware of how they examined and tested on animals, it raises the concern for me on how they were tested on and what methods they used in testing on these animals. In this article they talk about how over 126 non-human species could be carriers of the variant, so an issue that may occur is if those animals are being tested on in an ethical manner.

Another issue I would have would be the accuracy and certainty of the information provided in the article, I have read multiple stories regrding COVID-19 and the future of the human race and have identified a lot of exaggerated information with the purpose of scaring people, so there are many topics on this issue that I wouldnt believe staright away.

== SCORE

6

== COMMENTS

I think this article was very informative, also very interesting as it gave me a lot of insight on the development of the cure to the virus and what the future fo it is. I was unaware that the variant was as contagious as it was and how serious it could possibly be, especially with ease of restrictions all over the world. I belive the reporter Bryan Lynn did a fantstuic job discussing the methods of identifying the spread of the virus especially to people who wouldnt have a scientific background as it makes it very easy to understand to anybody who may be reading it. As before I raised the issue about how accurate the information provided was but there wasnt enough data provided in the article for the accuracy to be serious issue in my opinion. It was also interesting to see how alogrithmic methods can be used in different sectors like Veterinary Sciences.

Your comments on this: did you think it was interesting and why, would
you have done it differently, was the reporting in the Press
reasonable or did they get lots of stuff wrong, etc. Was the method new,
or was it interesting new data, or an interesting new way of using existing
data and methods?