==== SOURCE

https://news.mit.edu/2019/detecting-pain-levels-brain-signals-0912

==== AGENT

Lopez- Martinez and Rosalind Picard from MIT, Ke Peng, Arielle Lee and David Borsook from Harvard Medical School

==== GOAL

Trying to develop a system that leverages machine learning and to measure a patient's pain level by analyzing brain activity from a portable neuroimaging device to help doctors diagnose and treat pain in non-communicative patients which could reduce the risk of chronic pain that occurs after surgery.

==== DATA

The researchers trained and tested the model on a labeled pain-processing dataset they collected from 43 male participants. (Next they plan to collect a lot more data from diverse patient populations, including female patients — both during surgery and while conscious, and at a range of pain intensities — in order to better evaluate the accuracy of the system.)

==== METHODS

Each participant wore the researchers’ fNIRS(functional near infrared spectroscopy) device on the forehead and was randomly exposed to an innocuous sensation and then about a dozen shocks to their thumb at two different pain intensities, measured on a scale of 1-10: a low level (about a 3/10) or high level (about 7/10). Those two intensities were determined with pretests: The participants self-reported the low level as being only strongly aware of the shock without pain, and the high level as the maximum pain they could tolerate.

In training, the model extracted dozens of features from the signals related to how much oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin was present, as well as how quickly the oxygenated hemoglobin levels rose. Those two metrics — quantity and speed — give a clearer picture of a patient’s experience of pain at the different intensities.

Importantly, the model also automatically generates “personalized” submodels that extract high-resolution features from individual patient subpopulations. Traditionally, in machine learning, one model learns classifications — “pain” or “no pain” — based on average responses of the entire patient population. But that generalized approach can reduce accuracy, especially with diverse patient populations.

The researchers’ model instead trains on the entire population but simultaneously identifies shared characteristics among subpopulations within the larger dataset. For example, pain responses to the two intensities may differ between young and old patients, or depending on gender. This generates learned submodels that break off and learn, in parallel, patterns of their patient subpopulations. At the same time, however, they’re all still sharing information and learning patterns shared across the entire population. In short, they’re simultaneously leveraging fine-grained personalized information and population-level information to train better.

==== RESULTS

The personalized models and a traditional model were evaluated in classifying pain or no-pain in a random hold-out set of participant brain signals from the dataset, where the self-reported pain scores were known for each participant. The personalized models outperformed the traditional model by about 20 percent, reaching about 87 percent accuracy.

==== COMMENTS

Since the researchers are able to detect pain with such accuracy and by using only a few sensors on the forehead they have a serious basis for bringing this technology into the real world for commercial use.
This is really a good idea because we currently have no metrics for the measurement of pain and since we can't measure pain, it becomes quite difficult to run clincial trials and perform medical operations. The anasthesia that is given to the patients needs to be calibrated properly or it could result in chronic post-operative pain because the anasthesia only numbs the body but the brain is still experiencing pain all the while. So this system could prove to be very useful as it could give real time information to the doctors and they could adjust the levels of anasthesia.
However since the accuracy is only 87%, 13% of the times it could mean that the patient still would feel pain and we would have a false negative. Besides pain receptors are present everywhere in the brain, so it doesn't make much sense to use the fNIRS receptors only on the forehead. It seems quite difficult to successfully be able to quantify pain on a general basis for the entire population as everyone has different tolerances for pain and would have different thresholds for chronic pain.

