== SOURCE

https://www.propublica.org/article/machine-bias-risk-assessments-in-criminal-sentencing

== AGENT

Northpointe, Inc.

== GOAL

To predict future criminals.

== DATA

During holding by the police after an arrest and before court procedures
a survey of the held person is conducted by an officer.  This survey includes questions 
within the following categories: personal information, current charges, criminal history,
non-compliance, family criminality, peers, resistance/stability, social environment, 
education, work, leisure/recreation, social isolation, criminal personality, anger and
criminal attributes.  Each category consists of about 5 to 10 questions, where each question
is multiple choice and is either answered yes or no, or on a scale of varying degree.

== METHODS

Northpointe uses logistic regression to output a score between 
1 and 10, 1 being the least likely to reoffended and 10 being the most likely.

== RESULTS

The results of the use of this software to determine the likelihood of future criminals is
in my best critical opinion an assumptive approximation of the nature of defendants, which
can and does get better results at predicting repeat criminals (63%) than guessing.  But it
fails to acknowledge the specific circumstances of individuals which can be clear indicators
of an individual’s future progress.

== ISSUES

The score produced by their model does not necessarily reveal whether a person is dangerous 
or if they should go to prison but is used in such a way regardless.
Also, somebody who has committed a serious crime and who should be clearly considered hight
risk has the potential of achieving a low score if he/she has a job, no past conviction, etc.
Where on the other hand if another person commits a relatively minor offence may be considered
high risk due to his/her economic status, whether they are homeless, have family who have
committed crimes, etc.

== SCORE

1

== COMMENTS

It is an interesting story, but I'm not a fan of it contents because I believe the court of law should only sentence those found guilty
on the bases of provable evidence and not on the output of a statistical black box which cannot be
questioned which is what is most definitely happening in this case.  On a deeper level, such sentencing
undermines the whole value system which the legal system is predicated on, the values of the sovereign individual.

I found this read interesting as it revealed the level of banality of injustice and the lack of care in upholding
sovereign individual values.  Ultimately, I think this rases a lot of philosophical question such as:
should the developers of such software trust the users (in this case the courts) to use the software
as it was intended (in this case it wasn't supposed to be used as a sentencing mechanism) or should they
act as overseers and enforce proper usage, if not by design by other means.

