High-Speed Tracking with Kernelized Correlation Filters

SOURCE

https://doi.org/10.1109/TPAMI.2014.2345390

AGENT

Joao F. Henriques, University of Coimbra, Portugal
Rui Caseiro, University of Coimbra, Portugal
Pedro Martins, University of Coimbra, Portugal and 
Jorge Batista, University of Coimbra, Portugal

GOAL

The core component of most modern trackers is a discriminative classifier, tasked with distinguishing between the target and the surrounding environment. 
To cope with natural image changes, this classifier is typically trained with translated and scaled sample patches. 
Such sets of samples are riddled with redundancies – any overlapping pixels are constrained to be the same. 

DATA

Random video sequences as input dataset.

METHODS

Proposed an analytic model for datasets of thousands of translated patches. 
By showing that the resulting data matrix is circulant, it can diagonalized with the Discrete Fourier Transform, reducing both storage and computation by several orders of magnitude. 
Interestingly, for linear regression the author's formulation is equivalent to a correlation filter, used by some of the fastest competitive trackers. 
For kernel regression, however, the authors derive a new Kernelized Correlation Filter (KCF), that unlike other kernel algorithms has the exact same complexity as its linear counterpart. 
Building on it, they also propose a fast multi-channel extension of linear correlation filters, via a linear kernel, which is called Dual Correlation Filter (DCF). 
Both KCF and DCF outperform top-ranking rackers such as Struck or TLD on a 50 videos benchmark, despite running at hundreds of frames-per-second, and being implemented in a few lines of code.

RESULTS

Demonstrated that it is possible to analytically model natural image translations, showing that under some conditions the resulting data and kernel matrices become circulant. 
Their diagonalization by the DFT provides a general blueprint for creating fast algorithms that deal with translations. 
They have applied this blueprint to linear and kernel ridge regression, obtaining state-of-the-art trackers that run at hundreds of FPS and can be implemented with only a few lines of code.

COMMENTS

Kernelized Correlation Filters is a new idea based on target features, different from traditional methods, however it's performance is compromised when the tracking target has large scale changes and severe occlusion.