== SOURCE
How machine learning is allowing thousands of students to sit exams at home
https://www.bbc.com/news/business-54881746

== AGENT
Piero Tintori's company Better Examinations

== GOAL
To manage exams online and all of the governance around it with different levels of invigilation. 
The unique feature is that it can detect if a student is attempting to cheat through the procedures of machine learning.
The software will perform these visual checks periodically, throughout the exam, to ensure the examinee does not trade places with someone else. 
It also restricts access to the internet, and any applications on the computer that could be used to help the student.
It uses Amazon's cloud computing system Amazon Web Services, to allow everything to work online.

== DATA
1. Question bank and answer key shared by university/teacher
2. List of assigned Users and Students. Upload photo of students that has been approved by a teacher
3. List of websites sites (applications on the computer that could be used to help the student) (tentative)
4. The visual or verbal cues that suggest student are cheating. Facial expressions like confusion. (tentative)

== METHODS
1. Detecting patterns in user behaviour that could indicate attempts to cheat - Classification problem
2. Assessment of MCQs and mathematics exams - Supervised learning technique as this is a classification problem.
3. Checking examinee's identity using the webcam - Face recognition system may be by SVM. Support Vector Machines (SVM) are a 
   popular training tool which can be used to generate a model based on several classes of data, and then distinguish between them.
4. Restricting access to websites and applications on each person's computer - Supervised learning technique as this is a classification problem.

== RESULTS
Helps to standardize practices across university/colleges and helping improve exam security and integrity.

== ISSUES
The examinee needs a laptop, a webcam and an internet connection. At times internet connections may not be stable. 
To ensure exam integrity, students must remain online for Proctored exams. 
Also, answers to open questions like essays are not auto-scored.

== SCORE
7

== COMMENTS

With pandemic leading to lockdowns and shutting schools/universities, the technologies like these really helped education system to work 
efficiently and effectively. It wasn't completely a new method as there are platforms where similar software is available. One impressive feature 
of the technology is that it can perform a visual identity check on the examinee repeatedly, throughout the exam, ensuring a precocious friend or 
parent isn`t sitting the test for them. The article on BBC News gives us a brief about the software. 
However, the company doesn't disclose the confidential workings related to product like data sets used for blocking websites and data used to analyse 
behavioural patterns of students. Also, they didn't specify the ML algorithms that were made into use.
Therefore, based on my understanding and google search engine, the methods might have been adopted are mentioned above.
